Hollands Crossing HOA

Architectural Standards and Control Specifications

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page 1

1.0

Letter of Introduction, and Approval Process

2.0 Appeal Process

4

Landscape/Hardscapes Architectural Standards 3.1 General Landscape Maintenance Requirements

3.2 Lawn Decorations & Omaments, Lighting & Signs

5

3.3 Patios, Arbors, Pergolas & Screens 3.4 Garden Plots

3.5 Compost Piles

Structural Architectural Standards

9

4.0

4.1 Outdoor Sheds 4.2 Mailboxes

4.3 Skylights, Attic Fans, and Window Air Conditioners

4.4 Decks 4.5 Fences

4.6 Play Equipment (Swing Sets, Play Houses, Jungle Gyms)

4.7 Basketball Goals

4.8 Clotheslines

4.9 Awnings

4.10 Roof

Additions Architectural Standards

14

5.0

5.1 Residential additions (including garages)

5.2 Driveways and Parking Pads

5.3 Swimming Pools & Hot Tubs 5.4 Solar Collectors

6.0

General Standards

16


6.1 Street Parking 6.2 Painting

6.3 Pets

6.4 Antennas Satellite Dishes

6.5 Storage and Storage Bins (trash receptacles)

Appendix

Please visit www.hollandscrossing.org or contact the current property manager to download or request a copy of the current Architectural and Landscape Request Form.

Page 2

Architectural Standards and Control Specifications


Hollands Crossing HOA

1.0 Letter of Introduction, and Approval Process

The purpose of the Architectural Standards and Control Specifications document is to provide the

homeowners of Hollands Crossing the specifications each homeowner must follow to maintain the physical appearance of their property as well as identify the process for changes they wish to make. The objective of this document is to maintain the overall appearance of the Hollands CrossingSubdivision, whereby preserving the overall appeal of our homes and neighborhood, and increase the values of our

homes.

Review & Approval Process Steps:

1) Consult the applicable section of the Architectural Standards and Control Specifications anddetermine what requirements must be followed prior to submitting a current Hollands Crossing Homeowners Association Architectural and Landscape Request Form.

2) The Architectural and Landscape Request Form must be completed and submitted, and subsequently approved in writing by the property management company via the Board of Directors, before any work is commenced. No change shall begin without written approval from the Board of Directors via the management company. Residents commencing work inviolation of standards is done at their own risk. Additional costs incurred as result of commencing work prior to approval are the responsibility of the homeowner. Failure to comply with guidelines will result in violation fines as stated in the covenants of HollandsCrossing Homeowners Association.

3) The Architectural and Landscape Request Form must be submitted with appropriate documentation. Please review the pertinent section(s) of the specifications and provide the documentation indicated. Details required for each submittal may vary depending upon thetype of change. Building permits are the responsibility of the homeowner as required by Town/City/County Ordinances.

4) The approval process is as follows:

a) The Architectural and Landscape Request Form and supporting documentation will bereviewed initially by the Association's management company for completeness and legibility

b) Completed submittals will be forwarded to the Architectural Committee (if active) or Board of

Directors for review and inspection of the site. If active, the committee will make a

recommendation to the Board of Directors e) The management company will inform the homeowner, via written correspondence(postal mail or e-mail) of the Board of Directors' decision d) Approval process will take approximately 45 days for processing and receipt of permission of

changes. No previously approved installation shall constitute establishing a precedent for approval e) Deterioration or repairs that result in the reconstruction or entire replacement of a structure,

the new structure must conform to the current specifications outlined in this document


Page 3


2.0 Appeals Process

To appeal a disapproved submittal, submit a written response to the Board of Directors, via the management company. The response must include specific detailed information that clarifies why the submittal should be reconsidered. To obtain the contact information of the current management

company you may contact the President of Homeowner Association or visit the community website: www.hollandscrossing.org


Page 4



Landscape/Hardscapes Architectural Standards 3.1 General Landscape Maintenance Requirements

Approval Required: Approval is required for major landscaping modifications. A major

modification would be considered a project that meets one or more of the following criteria:

a) are structural installation of a retaining wall or modification to existing retaining wall, installation of a walkway

b) changes to the contour of the land c) are adjacent to a property line

d) obstruct a neighbor's view

e) removal or installation of significant amounts of landscape f) Removal of any trees having a trunk diameter exceeding three (3) inches, shall notbe removed

without the express written approval from the Board of Directors.

Approval is not required for minor landscaping modifications. A minor modification would be

considered a project that meets one or more of thefollowing criteria:

a) naturalizing small areas of the yard that occupies no more than 30% of the frontand 30% of the

rear, and still must be maintained according to the guidelines below

b) adding low growing shrubs and bedding flowers

c) tree planting- unless the planting(s) will detract from neighboring lots orimpede sight lines

Modifications to the Hollands Crossing subdivision common areas without the approval of the Board of Directors is strictly prohibited. Guidelines: All landscape projects, whether major or minor in nature should becompleted in a

reasonable amount of time.

Pursuant to the restrictive covenants, it is the primary responsibility of all homeowners to maintain

their property in a way that does not detract from the overall aesthetics of the Community

Homeowners' compliance of this guidelinewill be based on their properties appearance and how

consistent it is with the appearance of the neighborhood's common areas. This includes the

following:

a) Overall quality of the lawn (weed content, grass height, greenness of lawn)

b) Edging along all sidewalks, driveways, and curbs c) Trimming along fence and house lines (front and backyards)

d) Hedging of all screening bushes to provide a clean look (front and backyards)

e) Mulching (eg, pinestraw, hardwood, or rock mulch is permitted) of all plantbed areas and around trees where applicable (front yard)

1) Removal and disposal of all debri, including leaves (front and backyards)

g) Removal of weeds/growth on hardscapes (including patios, walkways, driveways, sidewalks,

and curbs)

Page 5



Due to the creeping nature of warm season lawn grass varieties (bermuda, zoysia, or centipede), residents wishing to plant these types of grasses must notify your neighborsand install barriers if desired prior to seeding or laying of sod. Homeowners with a warm season lawn should maintain the lawn such that it reduces or eliminates the potential damage to a neighboring property that may result by the creeping nature of warm season grasses. If a resident changes their lawn to a different type of lawn from their neighbor, they are responsible for putting in a border. Cool season grasses (tall fescue or Kentucky bluegrass) do not require written approval.

Hedge or screen planting shall not be planted beyond the front lot line of the house. Hedge or screen plantings which form a barrier between properties should have an agreement for maintenance access and a setback to allow for plant growth.

3.2 Lawn Decorations & Ornaments, Lighting & Signs

Approval Required: Lawn ornaments, free standing flagpoles, lantern poles, floodlights, security lights, and fishponds require submission and written approval

Submission should include the following:

a) Plot plan showing the location of the item

as described in Section 1.0.

b) A picture and description of the item e) Provide documentation that proposed lighting does not violate local ordinances

Guidelines: All commercial advertising signs are strictly prohibited. The following items must be removed within 3-weeks following the event (no signs may be placed oncommon property)

a) Holiday decorations b) For sale or for rent signs c) Garage sale signs

d) Political campaign signs e) Landscape or accent lightning specific for observed calendar event (including dayssuch as Halloween)

Every effort should be made not to disturb or adversely affect the overall appearance of the neighborhood with the installation and operation of flood and security lights. On items not requiring approval, the committee reserves the right to request a homeowner to remove an item if deemed excessive by the Board of Directors.

3.3 Patios, Arbors, Pergolas & Screens

Approval Required: Yes, installation of a new patio, arbor, or screen (including replacement)

requires submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0.Submission should include the following: a) Plot plan showing location of the patio, arbor, or screen in relationship to otherstructures and

property lines b) Elevation drawing(s) showing the style of the patio, arbor, or screen. Drawingsshould include

railings, steps, walkways, etc.

e) Description of the material to be used, including samples of stain or paint



Page 6


d) Description and placement drawing of landscape screening e) Elevation drawings showing proper drainage will be maintained, preserving theintegrity of water flow in both the existing lot and neighboring lots

Guidelines (Style, Materials, Height & Location): There are no predetermined styles for patios, arbors, or screens.

Patios may be constructed using concrete or pavers (stone or brick). Concrete slab patios must be of a smooth finish and framed design. If choosing a stamped concrete patio, the design and stain must be submitted with the submission as described above. Patios constructed with a paver material, must use a sand fill or grout. Residents must maintain the patio, including removal of any and all weeds in sand fill or grout lines. Upon deterioration of the patio they should be repaired or replaced. Consideration willbe given to the need of landscape with the patio as part of the approval process.

Pergolas and screens must be constructed using a suitable outdoor lumber (plastic isprohibited). They should be stained to match the neighborhood. The height of a pergola shall not exceed nine (9) feet above the deck surface. Free standing screens shall not exceed 5 feet in height. If a screen is part of a pergola, it may extend to thearbor.

Patios should be located behind the house, but consideration will be given on a case bycase basis

depending on the lots location and the purpose of the patio. Construction within buffer areas is

prohibited.

3.4 Vegetable Garden Plots

Approval Required: No prior approval is required if the garden plot is wholly locatedin the rear portion of the lot and a minimum of 10 feet from the side and rear lot lines. For any garden location other than described above or if tree removal is required to provide space for the garden, garden plots require submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0. Submission should

include the following: a) Plot plan showing location of the garden and distance from the property lines.

b) Picture and description of item c) Picture and description of border around the garden and fence if used d) Description and placement of landscape screening

Guidelines: Garden plots may be no larger than 200 square feet. A border around thegarden is strongly encouraged (garden timers or similar material). To inhibit wild animals from eating vegetation, a fence may be installed as described in Section 4.5 ofthis document. Only style A and style B fences are permitted. Maintenance of the garden is required. Following the growing season, plants must be removed, and the garden prepared for the non-growing season. All stakes and any other structural additions must be removed and stored in a manner that does not distract from the overall appearance of the neighborhood.


Page 7


3.5 Compost Piles

Architectural Standards and Control Specifications

Approval Required: No, approval is not required Guidelines: Open compost piles are not permitted. Residents must use an enclosed compe

container located in the rear of the house, out of view of the street.



Page 8



4.0

Architectural Standards and Control Specifications

Structural Architectural Standards

4.1 Outdoor Sheds

Approval Required: Yes, the installation of an outdoor shed and associated landscaperequires submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0. a) Plot plan showing the location of the shed in relationship to other structures andproperty lines

b) Elevation drawing(s) showing the design of the shed. e) Description of the material to be used, including samples of stain.

d) Description and placement drawing of landscape screening

Guidelines: All new sheds or replacement sheds should be consistent with the originaldesign of the house. All colors and materials of the shed must be consistent with the general scheme of the neighborhood. Sheds should not be any larger than 10' x 12'. Sheds should be located behind the house, but consideration will be given on a case by case basis

depending on the lots location. Sheds must not impact the neighbors.

Obstruction of breezeways of adjoining properties will be considered in the approval process.

Construction within buffer area is prohibited. Prefabricated sheds are not permitted..

4.2 Mailboxes

Approval Required: Not applicable

Guidelines: All new mailboxes or replacements must use a wooden post and metal mailboxes. The style of mailbox post must be a tall post with a decorative top and place for mailbox to sit. The top

of the mailbox from ground level to its peak must notexceed 5 feet. The mailboxes must be black, with a red flag. Mailbox posts must be painted white andwell maintained. Mailboxes that have discolored due to mold or paint chipping must becleaned and

repainted. Plantings around the base of a mailbox is permitted.

4.3 Skylights, Attic Fans, and Window Air Conditioners Approval Required: Yes, skylights and attic fans that alters the exterior of the roof requires

submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0, Window air conditioners are strictly prohibited. Submission should include the following a) Plot plan showing location of the addition b) Description of the style, size and material to be used

Guidelines: There are no predetermined styles for skylights and attic fans. All skylights and attic fans will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Consideration will begiven to the overall ascetics of

the unit and the overall appearance of the neighborhood.


Page 9


4.4 Decks

Approval Required: Yes, installation of a deck (including replacement), deck enclosure and associated landscaping requires submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0. Submission should include the following:

e) Plot plan showing location of the deck in relationship to other structures andproperty f) Elevation drawing(s) showing the design of the deck. Drawings must includerailings, steps, walkways, etc.

lines

g) Description of the material to be used, including samples of stain.

h) Description and placement drawing of landscape screening Guidelines (Style, Materials, Height & Location): There are no predeterminedstyles for decks

Docks may be constructed with pressure treated wood or composite lumber. The material chosen should be consistent with that of fences. Deck posts may be constructed with brick or pressure treated wood. Consideration will be given to the need of landscaping underneath or around the deck. Residents must maintain the deck, including replacement of broken pieces. Maintenance requires removal of mold and re-application of stain. Upon deterioration of the deck they should be repaired or replaced.

Decks must reach a height that requires no more than an eight (8) inch step down from the entry into the house,

Decks should be located behind the house, but consideration will be given on a case by case basis depending on the lots location and the purpose of the deck. Obstruction of views or breezeways of adjoining properties will be considered inthe approval process. Construction within buffer areas is prohibited.

4.5 Fences

Approval Required: Yes, installation of a fence (including replacement) and associated landscaping requires submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0. Submission should include the following:

a) Picture of the fence to be used illustrating conformance to the 4 styles described under the guidance section b) A top-down surveyor's plat to indicate the exact location of the fence in relation tothe house

property lines. Plat should indicate the following a. Dimensions of the fence b. Elevations (side view) must be included

c. Gate locations d. Fence will be constructed on the property line and must not extend beyondthe front line

of the house or extend into any required setback. A setback may be required due to landscaping and will be taken into consideration during the review process


Page 10


Guidelines (Style, Materials, Height & Location): There are four predeterminedstyles for fences. The styles and requirements are described below. a Style A: a 3-board rail fence must be constructed using wooden posts withround tops

and flat 1" x 6" wooden rails. A maximum of 3 rails is permitted. A uniform height is to be maintained parallel to the ground line. The maximum height is 4 feet measured from the ground to the top of the post

b. Style B: a picket fence must have decorative exposed wooden posts. Picketsmust be

constructed with a decorative picket design. A uniform height is to be maintained parallel to the ground line. The maximum height is 4% feet measured from the ground to the top of the post c. Style C: a stockade fence must be constructed in a scalloped or rainbow design, with decorative exposed posts. A uniform height is to be maintainedparallel to the ground line. The maximum height is 6 feet measured from the ground to the top of the post d. Style D: a split rail fence must be constructed using wooden posts with rounded tops

and two rails. 2" x 4" mesh with split rail fencing is permissible. A uniform height is to

be maintained parallel to the ground line. The maximum height is 3 feet measured from

the ground top of the decorative posts (the highest point).

Fences will be constructed in the above styles using the following preferred materials: cedar, redwood, or treated pine lumber and installed in the natural color of these materials. Other materials (wrought iron, vinyl, etc.) used for fence construction will be considered on a case-by-case basis. The posts for any style must be set-in concrete. The finished side of the fence for any style must

face adjoining lots. The slats in Style B may have a maximum of a 1-inch gap between the vertical

slates.

Fences must be installed on the property line, unless where a setback requirement or forthe sake of

landscaping. A fence shall not extend beyond the front line of the house. Landscaping around the fence is required and should be included in the submission. Obstruction of views or breezeways of adjoining properties will be considered in the approval process. Residents must maintain the fence. Fences should be power washedto remove mold and resealed with an approved stain color. Residents are required to repair broken boards of the fence and correct leaning

or falling sections of the fence.. Upon deterioration of the fence, they should be repaired or replaced. Fences requiringreplacement must conform to one of the above styles.

4.6 Play Equipment (Swing Sets, Play Houses, Jungle Gyms) Approval Required: Yes, children's playground systems require submission and writtenapproval as described in Section 1.0. Submission should include the following:

a) Plot plan showing location of basketball goal and or child playground system. Plotplan should show location of play equipment and distance from the property lines

b) Picture and description of item c) Description and placement of landscape screening d) Formal survey must be submitted to show distance from property lines

Guidelines: Children playground systems must be constructed of a durable wood material. Metal

swing sets are not permitted. Upon deterioration of the playground


Page 11



systems they should be repaired or replaced. Installation must as inconspicuous as possible, and must be installed in the rear of the house, or directly behind the house when possible. When possible, they should be installed out of view of any street. Theplayground must not be installed any closer to the property lines than 10 feet.

Screening may be required in order to block the view and/or noise from neighboring lots. Landscape plans should accompany the submittal. Non-permanent play equipment (e.g., infant slides) must also be placed inconspicuously so that it does notdetract from neighborhood surroundings.

4.7. Basketball Goals

Approval Required: Yes, basketball goals mounted on poles require submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0. Portable basketball goals do not require written approval as described in Section 10. Submission should include the following: a) Plot plan showing location of basketball goal and or child playground system. Plotplan should

show location of play equipment and distance from the property lines b) Picture and description of item c) Formal survey must be submitted to show distance from property lines andeasements

Guidelines: Permanent and portable basketball goals are not permitted along the street right-of- way, no exceptions. Portable basketball goals should be stored during extended periods of non-use. Upon deterioration of the basketball goal they should berepaired or replaced: Installation of any basketball goal on the front of garage or structure of the residence is strictly prohibited.

4.8 Clotheslines

Approval Required: Not applicable

Guidelines: Outdoor clotheslines are prohibited. Using any structures such as fencesor

dry clothing is prohibited.

4.9 Awnings

Approval Required: Yes, all awning require submission and written approval

Section 1.0. Submission should include the following

a) Plot plan-showing location of awning b) Elevation showing location of awning

c) Description and sample of material(s) to be used

Guidelines: Awnings shall not be free standing. They must be attached to the house. The awning material must blend with the color of the house. The awing may be eitherretractable or stationary. Upon deterioration, the awning must be repaired or replaced


Page 12


4.10 Roofing


Approval Required: Not applicable

Guidelines: Only asphalt shingles are permitted. All other roofing materials are prohibited. Visual damage to roofs must be repaired immediately. Residents are strongly encouraged to remove the dark discoloration that occurs on roofs in the neighborhood. This maintenance can extend the life of your roof. If in the opinion ofthe Board of Directors the discoloration of the roof detracts from the overall appearance of the neighborhood, the owner will be required to remove the mold/fungus.


Page 13



5.0 Additions Architectural Standards

5.1 Residential additions (including garages)

Requires Approval: Yes, home additions (including garages) require submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0. Regular maintenance to preserve the structure in its original state does not require approval as described in Section 1.0. However, any changes to the exterior of the structure (eg, windows, doors, or chimneys) require approval according to Section 1.0 and the changes must comply withthe guidance of this section.

Submission should include the following: a) Official plat or survey showing lot boundaries, the existing building, and theproposed structure

b) Elevations showing the planned appearance of the structure

e) Description of the materials and sample of the materials to be used including color

d) Description and placement of landscape

Guidelines: Encroachment into any casement or buffer is strictly prohibited. Homeowners are required to match the house color and style with the addition being made to the house. It is responsibility of the homeowner to obtain all City/Town/County building permits and meet the requirements stipulated by the planning department and City/Town/County Ordinances

Homeowners are required to make every effort to complete the project in a reasonable amount of time such that the construction does not detract from the overall appearance and peace of the

neighborhood. Homeowners are required to maintain the aesthetics of the property during construction. All debris must be collected and disposed. Following the completion of the project, all debris and misplaced items must be returned to their proper location within 10 business days' time.

5.2 Driveways and Parking Pads

Approval Required: Yes, the installation of a parking pad require submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0, Submission should include the following

Guidelines: Parking pads will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Approval of theaddition of the parking pad requires submission of a beatification plan. The beautification/landscape should be significant and immediate

Driveways must be maintained according to Section 3.1. Cracking driveways and broken surfaces should be repaired and should be made within a reasonable period of time. Ifa driveway is replaced. concrete must be used for its surface. All other surfaces are strictly prohibited. A driveway may be replaced with the same style as itsoriginal or framed edges. The driveways should not be painted or stained.


Page 14


5.3 Swimming Pools & Hot Tubs

Approval Required: Yes, installation of a pool or hot tub requires as described in Section 1.0. Submission should include the following:

submission and written approva

a) Plot plan showing the location of the pool or hot tub. Plot plan should show thedistance from

the property lines

b) Picture and description of item c) Description and placement of landscape screening

d) Formal survey must be submitted to show distance from property lines

Guidelines: Only in-ground pools are permitted - all other above ground pools areprohibited.

Above ground hot tubs are permitted, but must be incorporated into thedesign of the patio or deck. Any supportive wood structure for the pool or hot tub must match the appearance of thedeck or patio. Pools or hot tubs constructed within any buffer or easement is prohibited. Operation of the pool or hot tub with health department regulations is required. Failure to do so will result in a request for closure of either the pool or hot tub. The pool or hot tub must be screened from any street view and must be landscaped.

5.4 Solar Collectors

Approval Required: Yes, installation of a solar collector (any kind) requires submission written approval as described in Section 1.0. Submission shouldinclude the following:

a) Plot plan showing the location of the solar collector

b) Picture and description of item e) Information from installer confirming required location and piping of solar collector

Guidelines: Solar collector must be installed as inconspicuous as possible. Whenever possible, collectors should be placed on the rear of the home or on the side that has the least public exposure. Collectors must be attached to the roof, not free standing or ground mounted. Every effort must be taken to camouflage the plumbing and supports of the collectors, which may require completely encasing the collectors. All metal parts should be painted to match the roof coloring, with minimal

exposure of piping. Piping running down the side of the dwelling is strictly prohibited. In no way shall these guidelines waive more stringent City/Town/County requirements and does notwaive the necessity of any permits.

Any tree removal required to permit increased solar exposure to the collectors, mustadhere to the tree removal guidelines.



Page 15


6.0

General Standards

6.1 Street Parking

Approval Required: Not applicable

Guidelines: Parking commercial licensed vehicles, trucks, and tractors is prohibited onthe lot or on common property or within any right-of-way of any street in or adjacent tothe Hollands Crossing subdivision as stated in the Restrictive Covenants.

The Board of Directors reserves the right to regulate the parking of all recreational vehicles including but not limited to campers, boats, trailers (of any kind).

In operable vehicles must be moved off the street or repaired. Due to limited space, residents are strongly encouraged to park in their driveways. The Board of Directors reserves the right to prohibit on street parking on a case-by-case basis for emergency andsafety concerns. Residents with two car garages should park two cars in their driveway.Residents should park in the direction of through traffic only and not any further than 6-inches from the curb. Residents should not park in a manner that impedes fellow residents from backing out of their driveways

6.2 Painting

Approval Required: Yes, a change of color of any part of the house (including doors, shutters or trim) requires submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0. Submission should include:

a) Description and sample of the material(s) to be used:

b) Signed/accepted Neighbor Notification (as part of the Hollands Crossing Architectural Request form)

Guidelines: Repainting or re-staining with the existing color scheme does not require approval. All requests will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Consideration will be given to the overall aesthetics of the color scheme and the overall appearance of the neighborhood. Colors should be uniform/solid and consistent with the existing colors in the neighborhood. Preferably, the door and shutters should match, but this is not a requirement. No previously approved installation shall constitute establishing a precedent for approval

6.3 Pets

Approval Required: Yes, all dog houses require submission and written approval asdescribed in Section 1.0. Submission should include the following

b) Plot plan-showing location of dog house (c) Description and sample of material(s) to be used d) Description of required landscape screening

Guidelines: Exotic animals, livestock or poultry of any kind, or the raising or breedingof such animals is prohibited. Dogs, cats or other household pets may be kept providedthat they are not bred or maintained for commercial purposes.


Page 16


Dog houses must be located in the back yard or side yard (which ever is least conspicuous). Animals must not be tied up in the front of the house. Dog houses are not to be larger than 4" x 4", with a height no larger than 4'. Dog runs are prohibited.Metal or chain link fencing is not permitted.

6.4 Antennas/Satellite Dishes

Approval Required: Yes, installation of an antenna or satellite dish requires submission and written approval as described in Section 1.0. Submission should includethe following: a) Plan showing the location of the antenna or satellite dish

b) Plan and description of plantings or landscaping that will be done to camouflage the equipment.

Guidelines: Satellite dishes installed at ground level (including supportive wiring) must be screened so the satellite dish is not visible from any street or neighboring property as viewed from ground level. If removal of any trees or other landscape to allow for installation of the antenna or satellite dish must receive approval according to Section 3.0.

Satellite dishes may be located on the roof of the house. Mounting a satellite dish on any other structure on the homeowner's property is prohibited. The satellite dish must be installed on the portion of the roof not facing the street, and the highest point of the dish is no higher than the peak of the roof. Mounting a satellite dish on the front facing of the roof is prohibited. Satellite dishes cannot beplaced within ten (10) feet of the front of the dwelling. In no way shall these guidelines waive more stringent City/Town/County requirements nor waive the necessity of any permits.

6.5 Storage and Storage Bins (Trash receptacles) Requires Approval: Not applicable Guidelines: Pursuant to the restrictive covenants, all trashcans and recyclingcontainers must be stored in a manner that is not visible from any street view.

Storage of any trade materials or inventories on any lot is strictly prohibited. Temporarystorage containers for the use of modification projects should be discretely placed and appropriately maintained. Failure to routinely dispose of trash in containers will be grounds for non-compliance with these architectural standards and control specifications. Following the completion of a project, all containers must be removed from the site within 10 business days.

Page 17