ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
OF
HOLLANDS CROSSING HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, INC.

In compliance with the requirement of Chapter 35A of the North Carolina General Statutes, the undersigned, a natural person of full age, has this day executed these Articles of Incorporation for the purpose of forming a non-profit corporation and hereby certifies as follows:

ARTICLE I

The name of the corporation is HOLLANDS CROSSING HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, INC. (hereinafter the "association").

ARTICLE II

INITIAL AGENT: PRINCIPAL OFFICE

The registered office of the Association is located at 401 Harrison Lake Boulevard, Suite 250, Cary, Wake County, North Carolina 27513. the name of the initial registered agent at such address is Bruce J. Herbert. The initial principal office of the Association is located at 401 Harrison Oaks Boulevard, Suite 250, Cary, Wake County, North Carolina 27513. The location of the registered and the principal office of the Corporation may be changed by a majority vote of the Board of Directors.

ARTICLE III

Purpose and powers of the association

The Association does not contemplate a pecuniary gain or profit to the bars thereof. the specific purposes for which the Association is termed are to own and maintain the Common Area (as that term is defined in that certain declaration of Covenants. Conditions and Restrictions for HOLLANDS CROSSING Homeowners association, Inc., to be recorded in the Wake County Registry, as from time to time amended, said document, together with all amendments thereto, if any, being hereinafter referred to as the "Declaration within the subdivision known as HOLLANDS CROSSING, and for these purposes, ter

(a) exercise all powers and privileges and to parties all of the dutie and obligations of the Association as set forth in the Declaration

 Page 2

(b) fix, levy, collect and enforce payment by any lawful means, all charges or assessments made pursuant to the terms of the Declaration;

(c) pay all expenses incurred in connection with collection of the charges and assessments set forth in subparagraph (b) above, and pay all office and other expenses incident to the conduct of the business of the Association, including all taxes, licenses and other governmental charges levied or imposed against property owned by the Association;

(d) acquire (by gift, purchase or otherwise), own, hold, improve, build upon, operate, maintain and subject to the provisions of the Apex Town Code and of subparagraph (f) below, convey, sell, lease, transfer, dedicate for public use, or otherwise dispose of real or personal property in connection with the affairs of the Association;

(e) borrow money and, with the assent of Members entitled to at least two-thirds (2/3) of the votes appurtenant to each Class of Lots (Class A and Class B, as defined in Article III, Section 2 of the Declaration), mortgage, pledge, deed in trust, or hypothecate any or all of it's real or personal property as security for money borrowed or debts incurred, provided that the rights of any such lender or mortgagee shall be subordinate to the property rights of the Members as provided in Article IV of the Declaration;

(f) dedicate, sell or transfer all or any part of the Common Area to any public agency, authority, or utility for such purposes and subject to such conditions as may be agreed upon by the Members. No such dedication ΟΙ transfer shall be effective unless the Members entitled to at least three-fourths (3/4) of the votes appurtenant to each class of Lots agree to such dedication, sale or transfer and signify their agreement by a signed and recorded document. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit the Board of Directors of the Association, without consent of the Members, from granting easements over and across the Common Area to any public agency, authority or utility for the installation and maintenance of sewerage, utility (including CATV) or drainage facilities when, in the opinion of the Board, such easements are necessary for the convenient use and enjoyment of properties within the subdivision. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Common Area shall be preserved to the perpetual benefit of the owners of Lots within HOLLANDS CROSSING and shall not be conveyed except to the Town of Apex or another non-profit corporation organized for similar purposes;

Page 3


(g) participate in mergers or consolidations with other non-profit corporations organized for the same or similar purposes, provided that any such merger or consolidation shall have the consent of the Members as provided in subparagraph (f) above; and

(h) have and exercise any and all powers, rights and privileges which a corporation organized under the Non-Profit Corporation Act of the State of North Carolina by law may now or hereafter have or exercise.

ARTICLE IV

FINANCE

The Association is a non-stock corporation and no part of the profits, if any, of the Association shall inure to the pecuniary benefit of it's members, or any of them, or to any other person.

ARTICLE V

MEMBERSHIP AND VOTING RIGHTS

Every person or entity who is a record owner of a fee or
undivided fee interest in any Lot which is subject by the
Declaration to assessment by the Association, including contract sellers, shall be a member of the Association. The foregoing is not intended to include persons or entities who hold an interest merely as security for the performance of an obligation. Membership shall be appurtenant to and may not be separated from ownership of any Lot which is subject to assessment by the Association.

The voting rights of the Members shall be provided in the Declaration and By-Laws of the Association.

ARTICLE VI

The affairs of the Association shall be managed by an initial Board of three (3) Directors. The persons who are to act in the capacity of Director until the selection of their successors are:

Name

Address

Bruce J. Herbert

401 Harrison Oaks Boulevard Suite 250 Cary, North Carolina 27513