DECLARATION 

OF

COVENANTS, CONDITION AND RESTRICTIONS.

RECISTRATION

FOR THE HOLLANDS CROSSING HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION

THIS DECLARATION, made on the date hereinafter PULTE HOME CORPORATION, a Michigan corporation referred to as 'Declarant'):

WITNESSE THI

WHEREAS, Declarant is the owner of those certain tracts of land located in Apex Township, Wake County, North Carolina, more fully described in deeds recorded in Book 6840, Page 0301, and Book 7328, Page 0960 in the Wake County Registry;

WHEREAS, Declarant desires to create on such property an

exclusive residential community of single-family homes to be known

as HOLLANDS CROSSING Subdivision (hereinafter sometimes referred

to as "HOLLANDS CROSSING or the "Subdivision");

WHEREAS, Declarant desires to provide for the maintenance and upkeep of the Common Area and to provide a vehicle for ensuring that the storm water drainage systems and facilities for the Subdivision are properly maintained, and, to that end, desires to subject all of the property within the Subdivision to the covenants, conditions, restrictions, easements, charges and liens hereinafter set forth, each and all of which is and are for the benefit of said property and each owner thereof;

WHEREAS, Declarant has deemed it advisable to create an organization to own, maintain and administer the Common Area, to administer and enforce covenants and restrictions exclusively applicable to the subdivision, and to collect and disburse the assessments and charges hereinafter created, and Declarant has therefore incorporated under North Carolina law as a non-profit corporation, HOLLANDS CROSSING HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, INC., for the purpose of exercising the aforesaid function;

NOW, THEREFORE, Declarant declares that the real property described in Section 1 of Article II of this Declaration and such additions thereto as may hereafter be made pursuant to Article II hereof, is and shall be owned, held, transferred, sold, conveyed, and occupied subject to the covenants, conditions. restrictions, easements, charges and liens set forth in this Declaration, which shall run with the real property and be binding on all parties owning any right, title or interest in said real property or any part thereof, their heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of each owner thereof.


ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS

Section 1. "Association shall mean and refer to the

HOLLANDS CROSSING HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, INC., a North Carolina non-profit corporation, its successors and assigns. Section 2. "Properties shall mean and refer to the

"Existing Property described in Article II of this Declaration and

Section 1. 'Lot' shall mean and refer to any plot of land.

constitute a Lot.

any additional property annexed pursuant said Article II. with delineated boundary lines, shown on any record subdivision map of the Properties, with the exception of any Common Area owned in fee by the Association and any street rights-of-way shown on such recorded map. In the event that any Lot is increased or decreased in size by recombination or resubdivision through recordation of a new subdivision plat, any newly-platted lot shall thereafter

Section 4. "Owner shall mean and refer to the record owner, whether one or more persons or entities, of fee simple title to any Lot which is a part of the Properties. including contract sellers and owners of an equity of redemption, but excluding those having an interest in a Lot solely as security for the performance of an obligation.

Section 5. "Common Area' shall mean and refer to the real property, together with any improvements thereon, owned by the Association, whether in fee, by easement or otherwise, for the common use and enjoyment by the Owners of Lots within the Subdivision. The Common Area shall be maintained by the Association or its successors in interest unless dedicated to public use as set forth herein.

Section 6.

"Member shall mean and refer to every person

or entity who holds membership in the Association.

Section 7. "Declarant shall mean and refer to PULTE HOME CORPORATION, a Michigan corporation. It shall also mean and refer to any person, firs or corporation to whom or which Pulte Home Corporation shall assign or delegate the rights and obligations of Declarant by an assignment of Declarant's rights recorded in the Wake County Registry.

ARTICLE II

PROPERTY SUBJECT TO THIS DECLARATION

AND WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF THE HOLLANDS CROSSING HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. INC.

Section 1.

Existing Property. The real property which

is and shall be held, transferred, sold, conveyed, and occupied subject to this Declaration, and which is within the jurisdiction of the Association, is described on Exhibit A attached hereto.

Section 2. Additions to Existing Property. At any time

prior to December 31, 2007, additional lands within the property described in Exhibit B to this Declaration may be annexed by the Declarant without the consent of the Members and therefore become subject to this Declaration by the recording by Declarant of a plat showing such property to be annexed and of a supplementary declaration extending the operation and effect of this Declaration to the property to be annexed, provided, however, that such property must be contiguous to property already subject to this Declaration and must be approved by the Town of Apex and, if appropriate, by the Federal Housing Administration and/or Veterans Administration. Any or all of the Exhibit B property may be annexed and subjected to this Declaration as one parcel or as several parcels at different times. The addition of such property pursuant to this Section may increase the cumulative number of Lots within the Properties and, therefore, may alter the relative maximum voting strength of the various types of Members of the Association.

Section 1. Density. The current zoning classification of HOLLANDS CROSSING is R-4, which means that the maximum number of units per acre within the Subdivision without rezoning the property to another zoning classification is four (4) lots per acre, or a total of 345 lots.

ARTICLE III

MEMBERSHIP AND VOTING RIGHTS Membership. Every Owner of a Lot which is

Section 1.

subject to assessment by the Association shall be a Member of the

Association. Membership shall be appurtenant to and may not be separated from ownership of any Lot which subject to assessments.

Section 2. Voting Rights. The voting rights of the membership shall be appurtenant to the ownership of the Lots. There shall be two classes of Lots with respect to voting rights:

(a) Class A Lots. Class A Lots shall be all Lots except Class B Lots as the same are hereinafter defined. Ownership of a Class A Lot shall entitle the Owner(s) of said Lot to one (1) vote. When more than one person owns an interest (other than a leasehold or security interest) in any Lot, all such persons shall be Members

and the voting rights appurtenant to their Lot shall be exercised

as they, among themselves, determine; but fractional voting shall

not be allowed, and in no event shall more than one vote be cast

with respect to any Class A Lot.

(b) Class B Lots. Class B Lots shall be all Lots owned by Declarant which have not been converted to Class A Lots as provided in subparagraphs (1) and (2) below. Declarant shall be entitled to three (3) votes for each Class B Lot.

The Class B Lots shall cease to exist and shall be converted to Class A Lots upon the earlier of the following to occur:

(1) When the total number of votes appurtenant to the Class A Lots equals the total number of votes appurtenant to the Class B Lot: provided. however. that all Lots owned by Declarant shall revert to Class B Lots and thereby be reinstated with all rights, privileges, and responsibilities of such Class if, after the conversion of Class B Lots to Class A Lots, additional Lots within the Properties are formed by the recording in the Wake County Registry of a new map of Lots as set forth in Article II hereof, thus making Declarant the Owner, by virtue of the newly- recorded Lots and of other Lots owned by Declarant, of a sufficient number of Class 8 Lots to cast majority of votes lit being hereby stipulated that the conversing and reconversion shall occur automatically as often as the foregoing facts shall occur): or

(2) on December 31, 2007.

when the Class B Lots cease to exist and are converted to Class A Lots, Declarant shall have the same voting rights as other Owners of Class A Lots.

Section 3. Yacant/Leased Residences. If the Owner of a Lot ceases to occupy the dwelling constructed thereon as his own personal living quarters or if any residence within the Properties is leased for rental purposes to tenants, the vote as expressed by the Owners of such rental units shall not be entitled to any weight greater than forty-nine (49%) percent on any matter pending before the Association.

Page 5
ARTICLE IV

PROPERTY RIGHTS

Section 1 Owners Easements of Enjoyment and Access. Except as limited by Section 2 of this Article IV and by the Rules and Regulations adopted by the Members and /or the Board of Directors of the Association, every Owner shall have a right and easement of enjoyment in, use of and access to, from, and over the Common Area, which right and easement shall be appurtenant to and shall pass with title to every Lot, subject to:

(a) the right of the Association to charge reasonable admission and other fees for the use of any facility hereafter situated or constructed on the Common Area and to limit the use of such facilities to Owners who occupy a residence on the Properties and to their families, tenants and guests, as provided in Section 2 of this Article IV.

(b) the right of the Association to suspend the voting rights of an Owner for any period during which any assessment against his Lot remains unpaid, or for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days for any infraction of the published rules and regulations of the Association.

(c) the right of the Association to dedicate or transfer all or any part of the Common Area to any public agency, authority, or utility for such purposes and subject to such conditions as may be agreed upon by the Members. No such dedication or transfer shall be effective unless the Members entitled to at least three- fourths (3/4) of the votes appurtenant to each Class of B Lots agree to such dedication, sale or transfer and signify their agreement by a signed and recorded document, provided that this subsection shall not preclude the Board of Directors of the Association from granting easements for the installation and maintenance of sewage, utility, (including CATV), and drainage facilities upon, over, under and across the Common Area without the assent of the Members when such easements, in the opinion of said Board, are necessary for the convenient use and enjoyment of the Properties. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Common Area shall be preserved to the perpetual benefit of the public in general and shall not be conveyed except to the Owners or the Town of Apex or to another non-profit corporation for the aforementioned purposes.

(a) the right of the Association, with the assent of Members entitled to at least two-thirds (2/31 of the votes appurtenant to each class of Lots. to mortgage pledge, deed in trust, or otherwise hypothecate any or all of its real or personal property as security for money borrowed
or debts incurred, provided that the rights of any such lender or mortgagee shall be subordinate to the property rights of the Owners as set forth herein.

Section 2.

Delegation of Use.

(a) Family. The right and easement of enjoyment and access granted to every Owner by Section 1 of this Article may be exercised by members of the Owner's family who occupy the residence of the Owner within the Properties as their principal residence in Wake County, North Carolina.

(b) Tenants. The right and easement of enjoyment and access granted to every Owner by Section 1 of this Article may be delegated by such Owner to his tenants or contract purchasers who occupy a residence within the Properties, or a portion of said residence, as their principal residence in Wake County, North Carolina.

The right and easement of

(c) Guest. enjoyment and access granted to every Owner by Section 1 of this Article may be delegated to guests of such Owners, tenants or contract purchasers, subject to such rules and regulations as may be established by the Board of Directors.

Section 3. Conveyance of Title to the Association. Declarant covenants, for itself, its successors and assigns, that it will convey title to the Common Area within each phase or section of the Subdivision to the Association prior to the conveyance of the first Lot within such phase or section to an Owner. Declarant reserves an easement over and across the Common Area so long as it owns any Lots within the Properties for the purpose of constructing any improvements on the Common Area as it deems necessary or advisable. Except as otherwise stated herein. all conveyances by Declarant to the Association shall be free and clear of all encumbrances and liens, except utility and drainage easements of record or shown on the recorded plats of the Subdivision. Any improvements placed on the Common Area by Declarant shall become the property of the Association upon completion of such improvements.

Section 4. Regulation and Maintenance of Common Area. It is the intent of the Declarant that the Common Area be preserved to the perpetual benefit of the Owners within the Subdivision. To that end, Declarant will prior to the conveyance of the first Lot to an Owner, reserve on a recorded plat or grant to the Association an easement over and across that portion of any Lot on which a Common Area easement lies. It is the intent of the Declarant that the easement area shall be maintained in the same

Page 7
state as when the Lot upon which such easement lies was conveyed to the Owner.

(a) Rights and Responsibilities of the Lot Owners

Each Owner of a Lot upon which Common Area lies shall pay all

property taxes and other assessments levied against his Lot,

including that portion of such tax or assessment as is attributable

to such Common Area. Notwithstanding any other provision of this

Declaration, no Owner or other person shall, without the prior

written consent of the Association: (1) remove any trees or

vegetation within the Common Area; (2) erect gates, fences, or

other structures on the Common Area; (3) place any garbage

receptacles on or in the Common Area; (4) fill or excavate the

Common Area or any part thereof; or (5) plant vegetation or

otherwise restrict or interfere with the use, maintenance, and

preservation of the Common Area.

(b) Rights and Responsibilities of the Association. The Association shall have right and obligation to ensure that the Common Area is preserved to the perpetual benefit of the Owners within the Subdivision and to that end, shall: (1) maintain the Common Area in its natural or improved state, as appropriate, and keep it free of impediments to its free use by the Owners within the Subdivision: and (2) procure and maintain adequate liability insurance, in an amount not less than $1,000,000.00. covering the Association and its Members against any loss or damage suffered by any person, including the Owner of any Lot upon which Common Area lies, resulting from the use of the Common Area.

ARTICLE Y

COVENANT FOR MAINTENANCE ASSESSMENT

Creation of the Lien and Personal obligation of

Section 1 Assessments. Declarant, for each Lot owned within the Properties. hereby covenants, and each Owner of any Lot, by acceptance of a deed therefore, whether or not it shall be so expressed in such deed, is deemed to covenant and agree to pay to the Association annual assessments and special assessments. such assessments to be established and collected as hereinafter provided. All assessments which are unpaid when due, together with interest and late charges set forth in Section 8 of this Article V and all costs. collection, including reasonable attorney's fees, shall be a charge on the land and shall be a continuing lien upon the Lot against which such assessment is made. Each such assessment or charge, together with interest and costs of collection, including of reasonable attorney's fees. shall also be the personal or corporate obligation of the person(s), firmis) or corporation(s) owning such Lot at the time when the assessment fell due, but such personal obligation shall not be imposed upon such Owner's successors in
title unless expressly assumed by them. Although unpaid assessments and charges are not the personal obligation of such Owner's successors in title unless expressly assumed by them, the unpaid assessments and charges shall continue to be a lien upon the Lot against which the assessment or charge was made.

Section 2. Purposes of Assessments. The assessments levied

by the Association shall be used exclusively to promote the recreation, health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the Properties and, in particular, for: (i) acquisition, improvement, and maintenance of properties, services and facilities related to the use and enjoyment of the Common Area; (ii) repar and reconstruction of improvements on the Common Area, including storm water infiltration devices and other storm water drainage facilities constructed on or serving the Properties, including, but not limited to the cost of repair, replacement and additions thereto and the cost of labor, equipment, materials, management and supervision thereof; (iii) payment of taxes and public assessments levied against the Common Area owned by the Association in fee; (iv) procurement and maintenance of insurance in accordance with the By-Laws of the Association: (v) employment of attorneys, accountants and other persons or firms to represent the Association when necessary; (vi) payment of principal and interest on funds borrowed for Association purposes; and (vii) such other needs as may arise.

Section 3. Maximum Annual Assessment. Until January 1, 1998, the maximum annual assessment shall be $420.00 per Class A Lot ($35.00 per month) and, subject to the provisions of Sections 3(c) and 3(d), below, $42.00 per Class 8 Lot ($3.50 per month).

(a) From and after January 1, 1998, the Maximum Annual

Assessment may be increased by the Board of Directors effective

January 1 of each year, without a vote of the membership, but

subject to the limitation that the percentage of any such increase

shall not exceed 10% of the maximum assessment for the previous

year unless such increase is approved as set forth in Section 3(b), below. (b) From and after January 1 of the year immediately following the conveyance of the first Lot to an Owner, the Maximum Annual Assessment may be increased without limitation if such increase is approved by not less than two-thirds of the voters appurtenant to the each class of Lots. cast in person or by proxy.

at a meeting duly called for this purpose. (c) The Board of Directors may fix the annual assessment at an amount not in excess of the maximum: provided. however, that, except as otherwise provided in this subparagraph (c), the assessment established for each Class B Lot shall always be one tenth (1/10) of the assessment for a Class A Lot.


A Class A Lot shall be assessed at the Class B rate until a dwelling constructed thereon is occupied as a residence pursuant to a certificate of occupancy issued by the appropriate governmental agency; thereafter it shall be assessed at the Class A rate.

A Class B Lot shall be assessed at the Class 8 rate until a dwelling constructed thereon is occupied by any person as a residence pursuant to a certificate of occupancy issued by the appropriate governmental agency, in which event such Lot shall be assessed at the Class A rate for the period during which the dwelling is so occupied. Such Lot shall remain a Class B Lot for all other purposes. In the event that Class 8 Lots are converted to Class A Lots, or Class A Lots are reconverted to Class 3 Lots, the assessment with respect to such Lots shall be prorated and charged according to their class as of the date of each conversion and reconversion.

It is the intent of the foregoing that a Lot containing a dwelling used as a model or sales center and not as a residence shall be assessed at the Class B rate.

(d) Any annual assessment established by the Board of Directors shall continue thereafter from year to year as the annual assessment until changed by the Board.

Section 4. Special Assessments for Capital Improvements. In addition to the annual assessments authorized above, the Association may levy, in any assessment year, special assessments for the purpose of defraying, in whole or in part, the cost of any construction, repair, or replacement of a capital improvement upon property owned by the Association, including fixtures and personal property related thereto, or for repayment of indebtedness and interest thereon, provided that any such assessment shall have the same assent of the members as provided in Section 3(b) of this Article and shall be in the ratios provided in Section 3 of this Article.

Section 5. Assessment Rate: Collection Period. The annual and special assessment shall be fixed at a uniform rate for all Lots within each Class and may be collected on a yearly, quarterly or monthly basis, as determined by the Board of Directors.

Section 6. Notice of Quorum for any Action Authorized Under Sections 3 and 4. written notice of any meeting called for the purpose of taking any action authorized under Section 3 or 4 shall be sent to all members not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days prior to the meeting. At the first such meeting called, the presence of members or of proxies entitled to cast sixty-seven (67%) percent of the votes appurtenant to each Class of Lots shall constitute a quorum. If the required quorum is not present, another meeting may be called subject to the same notice requirement, and if the same is called for a date not later than sixty (60) days after the date of the first meeting, the required quorum at the subsequent meeting shall be one-half (-) of the required quorum at the preceding meeting.

Section 7. Date of Commencement of Annual Assessments:

Amount of Initial and Subsequent Annual Assessments: Certificate of Payment. The annual assessments provided for herein shall commence as to all Lots in any phase on the first day of the month following the conveyance to the Association of all or any part of the Common Area within that phase. Unless a lower amount is set by the Board of Directors, the first annual assessment shall be the maximum annual assessment

set forth in Section 3 of this Article and shall be prorated

according to the number of months remaining in the calendar year.

At least thirty (30) days before January 1 of each year, the Board of Directors shall fix the amount of the annual assessment against each Lot. At least fifteen (15) days before January 1 of each year, the Board of Directors shall send written notice of such assessment to every Owner subject thereto. The due dates for the payment of annual and special assessments shall be established by the Board of Directors.

The Association shall, upon demand, and for such reasonable charge as the Board of Directors may determine, furnish a certificate signed by an officer of the Association setting forth whether the assessments on a specified lot have been paid. If such certificate states that an assessment has been paid, such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of payment.

Section 8. Effect of Nonpayment of Assessments: Remedies. Any assessment not paid within ten (10) days after the due date shall incur such late charge as the Board of Directors may from time to time establish, and, if not paid with thirty (30) days after the due date, shall also bear interest from the due date at the rate of twelve percent (121) per annum or the highest rate allowed by law, whichever is less. The Association may bring an action at law against the Owner personally obligated to pay the same and/or foreclose the lien against the property. Interest. late payment charges, costs and reasonable attorney's fees of such action or foreclosure shall be added to the amount of such assessment. No Owner may waive or otherwise escape liability for the assessments provided for herein by non-use of the Common Area or by abandonment of his Lot.

Section 2. Subordination of the Lien to Mortgages. The liens provided for herein shall be subordinate to the lien of any first mortgage or first deed of trust on a Lot. Sale or transfer of any Lot shall not affect any assessment lien. However, the sale or transfer of a Lot pursuant to such a foreclosure of a mortgage or deed of trust, or any proceeding in lieu of foreclosure thereof, shall extinguish the lien of such assessments as to the payment thereof which became due prior to the date of such conveyance. No such sale or transfer shall relieve such Lot from liability for any assessments thereafter becoming due or from the lien thereof, but the liens provided for herein shall continue to be subordinate to the lien of any first mortgage or deed of trust.

Section 10. Exempt Property. All property dedicated to

and accepted by a public authority and owned by a charitable or non-profit organization exempt from taxation by the laws of the State of North Carolina shall be exempt from the assessments created herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no land or improvements devoted to dwelling use shall be exempt from said assessments.

Section 11. Working Capital Fund. At the time of closing of the initial sale of each dwelling constructed on each Lot, a sum equal to one-sixth (1/6) of the annual assessment for Class A Lots in effect at the time of such sale shall be collected from the purchaser of such dwelling and transferred to the Association as part of its working capital. The purpose of the working capital fund is to ensure that the Association will have adequate cash available to meet unforeseen expenditures or to acquire additional equipment or services deemed by the Board of Directors to be necessary or desirable. Amounts paid pursuant to this Section shall not be considered as an advance payment of any regular assessment.

ARTICLE VI

RIGHTS OF LENDERS

Books and Records. Any owner or holder of a

Section 1

first deed of trust on any Lot, or its agent(s), shall have the

right. during normal business hours, to examine copies of this

Declaration, the Articles of Incorporation, By-laws, and the books

and records of the Association and, upon written request to the

Association, to receive a copy of the financial statement for the

immediately preceding fiscal year. Section 2. Notice to Lenders. Upon written request to the Association, the owner or holder of a first deed of trust on any Lot shall be entitled to timely written notice of:

(a) Any 60-day delinquency in the payment of assessments or charges owed by the Owner of the Lot securing ita loan.

(b) A lapse, cancellation, or material modification of any insurance policy or fidelity bond maintained by the Association.

(c) Any proposed action that requires the consent of a specified percentage of owners or holders of first mortgages on the Lots.

Section 1. Approval of Owners and Holders of First Deeds of Trust. Unless at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the owners and holders of the first deeds of trust on Lots located within the Properties have given their prior written approval, the Association

shall not:

(a) By act or omission seek to abandon, partition. subdivide, encumber, sell, or transfer any real estate or improvements thereon which are owned, directly or indirectly, by the Association. The granting of easements for utilities or other purposes shall not be deemed a transfer within the meaning of this clause. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the property owned by the Association, whether in fee, by easement, or otherwise, shall be preserved to the perpetual benefit of the Owners or of the public in general and shall not be conveyed except to the Town of Apex or to another non-profit corporation for the aforementioned purposes.

(b) Change the method of determining the obligations,

assessments, dues or other charges which may be levied against a Lot: (c) Fail to maintain hazard insurance on insurable

improvements on the Common Area on a current replacement cost basis

in an amount not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the

insurable value; or

(d) Use the proceeds of any hazard insurance policy covering losses to any part of the Common Area for other than the repair, replacement, or reconstruction of the damaged improvements.

Section 4. Payment of Taxes and Insurance Premiums. The owners or holders of first deeds of trust on Lots, jointly or singly, may pay taxes or other charges which are in default and which have or may become a charge or lien against any of the Common Area and may pay overdue premiums on hazard insurance policies or secure new hazard insurance coverage upon the lapse of a policy covering property owned by the Association. The persons, firms or corporations making such payments shall be owed immediate reimbursement therefor by the Association.

Page 13
ARTICLE VII

EASEMENTS

Section 1. Access and Utility Easements. Easements for the installation and maintenance of driveway, walkway, water lines, gas lines. telephone, cable television, electric power transmission lines, sanitary sewer and storm water drainage facilities and for other public utility installations are reserved as shown on the recorded plats of the Properties. The Association may reserve and grant easements over the Common Area as provided in Article IV, Section 1(c), of this Declaration. Within any such easement herein provided, no structure, planting or other material shall be placed or permitted to remain which may interfere with the installation or maintenance of the utilities installed thereon, or which may change the direction or flow or drainage of water through drainage pipes or channels constructed in such easements.

For a period of twenty-five (25) years from the date hereof. Declarant reserves an easement and right of ingress, egress and regress on, over and under the Properties to maintain and correct drainage or surface water runoff in order to maintain reasonable standards of health, safety and appearance. Such right expressly includes the right to cut any trees, bushes or shrubbery, make any gradings of the soil, or take any other similar action that it deems reasonably necessary or appropriate. After such action has been completed, Declarant shall grade and seed the affected property and restore the affected property to its original condition to the extent practicable, but shall not be required to replace any trees, bushes or shrubbery necessarily removed. Declarant shall give reasonable notice of its intent to take such action to all affected Owners.

Section 2. Easements for Governmental Access. An easement is hereby established over the Common Area and every Lot within the Properties for the benefit of applicable governmental agencies for installing, removing, and reading water meters: maintaining and replacing water, sewer and drainage facilities: and acting for other purposes consistent with public safety and welfare. including, without limitation, law enforcement, fire protection, garbage collection, and the delivery of mail. Easement and Right of Entry for Repair

Section 1

Maintenance and Reconstruction. If any dwelling is located closer than five (5) feet from its lot line, the Owner thereof shall have a perpetual access easement over the adjoining Lot to the extent reasonably necessary to perform repair, maintenance or reconstruction of such dwelling. Such work shall be done expeditiously and, upon completion of the work, the Owner shall restore the adjoining Lot to as nearly the same condition as that which prevailed prior to the commencement of the work as is reasonably practicable.

ARTICLE VIII

ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL

No building, fence, wall or other structure shall be commenced, erected or maintained upon the Properties, nor shall any exterior addition to or change or alteration therein be made, nor shall a building permit for such improvement or change be made, nor shall any major landscaping or relandscaping of any Lot be commenced or made (such construction, alteration and landscaping are hereinafter referred to as the "Improvements") until plans and specifications showing the nature, kind, shape, heights, materials, color and location of same shall have been submitted to and approved in writing by the Declarant. If the Declarant fails to approve or disapprove such proposed Improvements within thirty (30) days after the plans and specifications have been received by it, approval will not be required, and this Article shall be deemed to have been complied with. The Declarant shall have the right to charge a reasonable fee, not to exceed $75.00, for receiving and processing each application. The Declarant shall have the right to promulgate and from time to time amend written architectural standards and construction specifications (hereinafter the "Architectural Guidelines') which may establish, define, and expressly limit the standards and specifications which will be approved, including, but not limited to, architectural style, exterior color or finish, roofing material, siding material, driveway material, landscape design and construction technique. The Declarant shall not approve any Improvements which it determines, in its discretion, not to be in harmony of external design, construction and/or location in relation to the surrounding structures, topography or the general plan of development of the Subdivision.

Declarant may, at any time, delegate the review and approval authority contained in this Article VIII to the Board of Directors of the Association, which, in turn, may delegate such authority, to an Architectural Committee composed of three or more persons appointed by the Board. Such delegation shall be made by the Declarant by recording in the Wake County Registry an Assignment of Declarant's Rights. Declarant shall delegate such authority no later of the date upon which Declarant no longer owns any Lots within the Properties, or December 31, 2007, whichever is earlier. Any use of the term 'Declarant in this Article VIII shall be deemed to apply to Declarant and. when appropriate. to the Board of Directors or the Architectural Committee. Nothing herein shall be construed to permit interference with the development of the Lots by Declarant in accordance with its general plan of development.


ARTICLE IX

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 1. Enforcement. The Association or any owner shall have the right to enforce, by proceeding at law or in equity,

all restrictions, conditions, covenants, reservations, liens and charges now or hereafter imposed by the provisions of this Declaration. Failure by the Association or an Owner to enforce any covenant or restriction herein contained shall in no event be deemed a waiver of the right to do so thereafter.

Section 2. Severability. Invalidation of any one of these covenants or restrictions by judgment or court order shall in no way affect any other provision, which shall remain in full force and effect.

Section 3. Amendment. The covenants and restrictions

of this Declaration shall run and bind the land, for a term of twenty-five (25) years from the date this Declaration is recorded, after which time they shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten (10) years unless terminated or altered by a vote of the Owners as set forth below. This Declaration may be amended during the first twenty-five (25) year period by an instrument signed by the Owners of not less than eighty percent (80%) of the Lots, and thereafter by an instrument signed by the Owners of not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the Lots. No amendment shall be effective unless it has been approved if required by Section 4 of this Article IX, by the Federal Housing Administration or Veterans Administration, and is recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Wake County.

Section 4. EHA/VA Approval. In the event that Declarant has arranged for and provided purchasers of Lots with FHA or VA- insured mortgage loans, then as long as any Class 8 Lot exists, as provided in Article III hereof, the following actions will require the prior approval of the Federal Housing Administration or the Veterans Administration: annexation of additional properties. mortgaging of real property owned by the Association, deeding of such real property to persons other than the Association, deeding of such real property to persons other than the Association, and amendment of this Declaration.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Declarant has caused this instrument to be executed on this the day of ch 1997

PULTE HOME By:


Bruce J. Herbert

Attorney-In-Fact




REGISTER IN

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS WE COUNT

COUNTY OF WAKE

FOR HOLLANDS CROSSING SUBDIVISION

PULTE HOME CORPORATION, a Michigan corporation (hereinafter "Declarant"), hereby declares that the Property described on Exhibit "A" attached hereto and made a part hereof, is and shall hereafter be held, transferred, sold and conveyed subject to the following restrictive covenants, which shall run with the Property, by whomsoever owned, to wit:

1. LAND USE AND BUILDING TYPES. All Lots shall be sued for residential purposes. No structure shall be erected, altered, placed or permitted to remain on any Lot other than one used, single-family dwelling, not to exceed two and one-half (2) stories in height, a private garage for not more than three (3) cars, and other out-buildings Incidental to residential use of the Lot. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit conversion of a Lot to a street.

2. DWELLING SIZE. The minimum heated square footage of a dwelling may not be less than 1,000 square feet for a one-story dwelling nor less than 600 square feet on the first floor of a two- story or two and one-half story dwelling.

3. BUILDING SETBACKS: HOUSE LOCATION. No dwelling shall be erected or maintained on any Lot outside of any building setback lines required by the zoning ordinance of the Town of Apex. For purposes of these building setback requirements, decks, porches, patios, stoops, eaves, overhangs, bay windows, chimneys, carports and other similar projections shall be deemed to be a part of the dwelling only to the extent that the same are deemed to be part of the dwelling under the zoning ordinance of the Town of Apex as it exists as of the date of issuance of a certificate of occupancy for such dwelling. Any dwelling erected on a Lot other than a corner lot shall face the street on which the Lot abuts. On corner lots, a dwelling may be erected so as to face either street or the intersection of the two streets on which the Lot abuts.

FENCES. No fence or wall shall be erected on any Lot closer to any street than the front or side building setback line. Chain-link or other metal fencing is not permitted, except that 2"x4" meah may be sued with split-rail fencing to contain animals within the yard. Any fence or wall installed within the subdivision must meet all requirements of the Town of Apex Zoning
Ordinance and must be approved as provided in Paragraph 17 of these Covenants. Hothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to apply to or regulate retaining walls made necessary by the slope or grade of any Lot or Lots, nor shall anything in this paragraph apply to any fence installed by the Declarant at any entrance to or along any street within the subdivision or on any Lot used by Declarant as A model home or sales office.

5. TEMPORARY STRUCTURES. No residence of a temporary

nature shall be erected or allowed to remain on any Lot, and no trailer, basenent, shack, tent, garage, barn, or any other building of a similar nature shall be used as a residence on any Lot, either temporarily or permanently.

6. PARKING DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING PADS: ABANDONED VEHICLES. Vehicles may be parked or stored only on portions of a Lot improved for that purpose, i.e., garage, driveway, carport or parking pad. No unenclosed parking shall be constructed or maintained on any Lot except paved driveway and an attached paved parking pad, which pad shall be designed for the parking of not more than to (2) vehicles Any driveway or parking pad constructed upon any Lot shari have either an asphaltic concrete surface, a cement concrete surface, or brick pavers,

No mobile house trailer (whether on or off wheels), vehicle or enclosed body of the type which may be placed on or attached to a vehicle (known generally as "recreational vehicles" or "campers"), or commercial vehicle of any kind shall be parked on the street within the subdivision, nor shall any such vehicle be parked or kept on any Lot. Furthermore, no boat or boat trailer shall be parked on the street within the subdivision. A boat and/or boat trailer may be parked or kept on a Lot if it is parked or kept in such a manner that the vehicle is screened from the street. Screening may be either by fence or plantings, but in any case, the screening must comply with any applicable Town of Apex Zoning Ordinance and be approved pursuant to Paragraph 17 of these Covenants. No tractor trailer trucks or cabs shall be parked on any street or Lot within the subdivision.

No vehicle of any type which is abandoned or inoperative shall be stored or kept on any Lot in such manner as to be seen from any other Lot, any street within the subdivision, and no automobiles or mechanical equipment may be dismantled or allowed to accumulate on any Lot.

7. ANIMALS. No animals, livestock, or poultry of any kind shall be kept or maintained on any Lot or in any dwelling, except that dogs, cats, or other household pets may be kept ar maintained on a Lot provided that they are not kept or maintained for commercial purposes.

8. NUISANCES: BUSINESS ACTIVITY. NO noxious or offensive trade or activity shall be carried on upon any Lot, nor shall anything be done thereon which may be or become an annoyance or nuisance to the neighborhood. No business trade or activity may be conducted on any Lot unless permitted by the Town of Apex.

9. SIGNS. Except as otherwise required by the Town of Apex, no sign of any kind shall be displayed to the public view on any Lot except signs used by Declarant to advertise Lots for sale during the construction and sales period, one sign of not more than ten (10) square feet advertising the property for sale or rent, and signs of not more than ten (10) square feet expressing support of or opposition to political candidates or other issues which will appear on the ballot of a primary, general or special election, provided that such political signs shall not be placed on a Lot earlier than sixty (60) days before such election and shall be removed within two (2) days after such election.

10. ANTENNAS: SATELLITE DISHES OR DISCS. No radio or television transmission or reception towers or antennas shall be erected on a Lot other than a customary television or radio reception antenna, which shall not extend more than ten (10) feet above the top roof ridge of the house. However, a satellite antenna receiver or disc will be permitted on a Lot if: (1) the receiver or disc is not larger than two (2) feet in diameter; (11) the receiver or disc is located on the side of the house away from the street within the building set back lines applicable to that Lot; and (iii) the receiver or disc is located or screened in such a way that it cannot be seen from any street within the subdivision. Any such screening must be approved as provided in Paragraph 17 of these Covenants. In no event shall any freestanding transmission or receiving tower be permitted on any Lot.

11. MAILBOXES. No mailbox shall be placed or maintained on any Lot unless the same has been approved in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 17 of these Covenants.

12. MAINTENANCE OF LOT: CONSTRUCTION. Each owner shall keep his Lot in an orderly condition and shall keep the improvements thereon in a suitable state of repair. In the event that any residence or structure on any Lot is destroyed or partially destroyed by fire, Act of God, or as a result of any other act or thing, the owner of such Lot shall repair the damage and reconstruct the improvement within twelve (12) months after such damage or destruction; provided, however, that if the structure damaged is not part of or attached to the residence constructed on such Lot, the owner may, at his option, either completely remove the damaged structure and landscape area on which the structure stood or repair or reconstruct the structure.

11 construction, landscaping or other work which has

Deen commenced on any Lot shall be continued with reasonable

iligence to completion and no partially completed house or other

improvement shall be permitted to exist on any Lot, except during

such reasonable time period as is necessary for completion. The

Owner of each Lot shall at all times keep contiguous public streets

free from any dirt, mud, garbage, trash or other debris resulting

from any auch construction on his Lot.

13.

CLOTHESLINES. No clothesline may be erected or

maintained on any Lot.

14. GARBAGE: UNSIGHTLY STORAGE. All trash and rubbish shall be kept in garbage cans stored behind the house in such a manner as not to be visible from the street upon which the house fronts. No trash, rubbish, stored materials, wrecked or inoperable vehicles, or similar unsightly items shall be allowed to remain on any Lot; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not be construed to prohibit, temporary deposits of trash, rubbish, and other debris for collection by governmental or other similar garbage and trash removal units. In the event of curbside trash and/or garbage pickup, trash and/or garbage cans may be moved to the street on the night before the scheduled pickup, but all garbage cans must be returned to approved enclosures the night of the scheduled pickup.

15. SEPTIC TANKS: WELLS. No septic tank shall be installed, used or maintained on any Lot. No well shall be installed, used or maintained on any Lot for human domestic water consumption, nor shall any well be connected in any manner whatsoever to the water mains, laterals and piping serving the dwelling, which sains furnish domestic water from sources beyond the boundaries of the Lot.

16. REMOVAL OF TREES. Except in the case of an eaergency situation that does not permit any delay, no living tree larger than 6" in diameter at a point measured 3' off the ground shall be removed from any Lot without the approval of the Declarant or, after Declarant has assigned it's right under paragraph 17 hereof as provided therein, of the assignee of such rights. The foregoing provision shall apply only to Lots which have been occupied pursuant to a certificate of occupancy issued by the Town of Apex.

17. ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL. No building, fence, wall, driveway, parking pad, mailbox or other structure or improvement shall be commenced, erected or maintained upon any Lot, nor shall any exterior addition to or change or alteration thereof be made, nor shall a building permit for such improvement or change be made, nor shall any major landscaping or re-landscaping of any Lot be commenced or made (such construction, alteration and landscaping are hereinafter referred to as the "Improvements") until plans and specifications showing the nature, kind, shape, heights, materials and location of same shall have been submitted to and approved in writing by the Declarant. If the Declarant fails to approve or disapprove such proposed improvements within thirty (30) days after the plans and specifications have been received by it, approval will not be required, and this Article shall be deemed to have been complied with. The Declarant shall have the right to charge a reasonable fee, not to exceed $75.00, for receiving and processing each application. The Declarant shall not approve any Improvements which it determines, in it's discretion, not to be in harmony of external design, construction and/or location in relation to the surrounding structures, topography the general plan of or development of the Subdivision.

The Declarant shall have the right to promulgate and from time to time amend written architectural standards and construction specifications (hereinafter the "Architectural Guidelines") which may establish, define and expressly limit the standards and specifications which will be approved, including, but not limited to, architectural style, exterior color or finish, roofing materials, siding material, driveway material, landscape design and construction technique.

Declarant may, at any time, delegate the review and approval authority contained in this Paragraph to the Board of Directors of the Association, which, in turn, may delegate such authority, to an Architectural Committee composed of three or more persons appointed by the Board. Such delegations shall be made by the Declarant by recording in the Wake County Registry an Assignment of Declarant's Rights. Declarant shall delegate such authority no later of the date upon which Declarant no longer owns any Lots within the Properties, or December 31, 2007, whichever is earlier. Any use of the term "Declarant" in this Paragraph shall be deemed to apply to Declarant, and when appropriate, to the Board of Directors or the Architectural Committee. Nothing herein shall be construed to permit interference with the development of the Lots by Declarant in accordance with it's general plan of development.

18. EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE. The owner of each Lot shall

maintain the grounds and improvements on his Lot, including, but a neat and attractive manner.

not limited to, plantings, landscaping and lawns, at all times in

19. EASEMENTS. Easements for the installation,

maintenance and repair of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved as shown on the recorded plat. Within such easements, no structure, planting, or other material shall be placed or permitted to remain which may interfere with the installation and maintenance of the utilities, or which may change the direction of flow or otherwise impede or retard the flow of water through the drainage channels within such easements. Any easements located on a Lot shall be maintained continuously by the owner of such Lot, except of any such improvements for which a public authority or utility company is responsible. Declarant reserves the right to create and impose additional easements or rights-of-way over any unsold Lot or Lots by the recording of appropriate instruments in the Wake County Registry, and such instruments shall not be construed to invalidate any of these covenants.

The Declarant or, as appropriate, the Association, and their respective agents, employees, successors and assigns, shall at all times have the right of access upon all such easements for the purpose of painting, replacing, landscaping, planting, mowing and otherwise maintaining the area within the foregoing easements and the improvements installed thereon or for removing any object placed in the easement area in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 19.

Declarant also reserves an easement in and right at any time in the future to grant ten (10) foot right-of-way over, under and along the rear line of each Lot for the installation and maintenance of poles, lines, conduits, pipes and other equipment necessary to or useful for furnishing electric power, gas, telephone service, cablevision or other utilities, including water, sanitary sewage service and storm drainage facilities. Declarant also reserves an easement in and right at any time in the future to grant a five (5) foot right-of-way over, under and along the side lines of each Lot for the aforementioned purposes.

20. SUBDIVISION OF LOTS. No Lot shall be subdivided by sale or otherwise so as to reduce the total Lot area shown on the recorded nap or plat, except by and with the written consent of the Declarant and, if required, by the Town of Apex.

21. IRSISTENTIONAL VIOLATIONS. Declarant, or the person(s) or firms to whom the architectural review and approval authority has been delegated pursuant to Paragraph 17 of these Covenants say, but shall not be obligated to, waive any violation of the designated and approved building setback lines on any Lot, provided, however, that no such waiver shall be effective unless the Lot and all structures thereon are in full compliance with the applicable provisions of the Town of Apex Zoning Ordinance or a variance has been obtained. Waivers shall be effective upon recording of same in the Wake County Registry.

22. STEET LIGHTING Declarant reserves the right to subject the Property to a contract with Carolina Fower & Light Company (CPAL") for installation of street lighting, which may require continuing monthly payments to CPAL by each residential customer.

23. EXFORCEMENT. Enforcement of these covenants shall be by proceedings at law or in equity against any person or persons violating or attempting to violate any covenant herein and enforcement shall be to either restrain violation and/or to recover damages resulting therefrom.

24. SEVERABILITY. Invalidation of any one or more of these covenants by judgment or court order shall in no affect any of the other provisions, which shall remain in full force and

effect.

25. TEEN. These covenants shall run and bind the land and all owners thereof for a period of twenty-five (25) years from the date these covenants are recorded, after which time, they shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten (10) years unless altered or amended set forth below. These covenants may be altered or amended as set forth below. These covenants may be amended during the first twenty-five (25) year period by an instrument signed by the then-owners of not less than ninety percent (90%) of the Lots, and thereafter an instrument signed by then-owners of not less than seventy five percent (75%) of the Lots.

26. HOLLANDS CROSSING HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. The owners of Lots within the Subdivision are Members of the HOLLANDS CROSSING Homeowners Association, Inc., and are subject to and bound by the Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions for the HOLLANDS CROSSING Homeowners Association recorded in Book Page Wake County Registry, as from time to time amended, which Declaration provides additional restrictions on such Lots.

27. DECLARANT. Nothing contained in these Covenants shall be construed to permit interference with the development of the Lots by Declarant so long as said development follows the general plan of development previously approved by the Town of Apex. The restrictions contained herein shall not be deemed to apply to any sales office, construction trailer, model home, or other temporary improvement installed by or with the approval of Declarant..

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Declant caused this instrument to

be executed as of the day of

1997.

PULTE HOME CORPORATION, a Michigan corporation

By:

(SEAL)

Love Ad ll Bruce J. Herbert

Attorney-in-Fact



Exhibit "A"

Being all of Lots 30 through 32 inclusive, Lots 56 through 69 inclusive and the area designated as Private Open Space containing 9,008 square feet (0.21AC) shown and more particularly described on that certain plat entitled Final Subdivision Plat HOLLANDS CROSSING-Phase 1, Section B recorded in Book of Maps 1997, Page 233 Wake County Registry, and

Being all of Lots 33 through 55 inclusive and the area designated as Private Open Space

containing 263,789 square feet (6.06AC) shown and more particularly described on that certain plat

entitled Final Subdivision Plat HOLLANDS CROSSING-Phase 1, Section C recorded in Book of Maps 1997, Page 234 Wake County Registry, and Being all of Lots 1 through 9 inclusive, Lots 88 through 93 inclusive and the lands designated as Future Recreation Area containing 32,613 square feet (0.75AC) shown and more particularly described on that certain plat entitled Final Subdivision Plat HOLLANDS CROSSING-Phase 1,

Section A, Sheet 1 of 3 recorded in Book of Maps 1997, Page 50 Wake County Registry, and

Being all of Lots 10 through 21 inclusive, Lots 75 tough 87 inclusive and the area designated as Private Open Space containing 4.87 acres shown and more particularly described on that certain plat entitled Final Subdivision Plat HOLLANDS CROSSING-Phase 1, Section A, Sheet 2 of 3 recorded in Book of Maps 1997, Page 51 Wake County Registry, and

Being all of Lots 22 through 29 inclusive, Lots 70 through 74 inclusive and the area designated as Private Open Space containing 4.87 acres shown and more particularly described on that certain plat entitled Final Subdivision Plat HOLLANDS CROSSING-Phase 1, Section A, Sheet 3 of 3 recorded in Book of Maps 1997, Page 52 Wake County Registry.