Hollands Crossing Homeowners Association

Pool Rules & Regulations

The following pool rules and regulations are distributed for the mutual benefit of the residents, and their guests, within the Hollands Crossing community. Your cooperation and respect for the rights of others is necessary to ensure continued enjoyment of the facilities.

1. Only homeowners in good standing (current with dues) are allowed the use of the

facilities.

2. Pool hours are from 8:00 AM through 8:30 PM.

3. Please use the pool at your own risk. No lifeguard is on duty.

4. Adult residents must accompany guests (limited to 2) at all times.

5. No person under the age of 14 will be allowed in the pool area unless accompanied by

an adult (18 years or older) who assumes responsibility for that person. 6. All persons must shower before entering the pool.

7. Only appropriate swimming attire is allowed in the pool area. 8. No animals of any kind are allowed in the pool area.

9. No one is allowed to swim alone.

10. No glass containers of any kind are allowed in pool area. Should glass be broken in the pool area, Wake County will close the pool until the pool is drained, cleaned, and all glass removed.

11. No food of any kind is allowed in the pool. 12. No bicycles, skateboards, roller blades, scooters, are allowed in the pool area.

13. No floats or rafts larger than 3 feet are allowed in the pool on weekends.

14. No running or horseplay is allowed in the pool area. 15. No one with an infectious disease, inflamed eyes, nasal, or ear discharge, open

wounds or bandages will be allowed in the pool.

16. Do not litter. All trash and paper must be put in the trash containers that are

provided.

17. Residents will be held responsible for the actions of their family and their guests.

18. Any cost of property damage will be charged to the responsible homeowner.

19. The association or management will not be responsible for the loss or damage to any personal property of any kind.

20. All children that are NOT potty trained MUST wear Rubber Swim Pants. This is a Wake County rule and any potty accidents will result in the pool being closed for a

24-hour period.

21. Smoking is not permitted in the pool area.

22. No audible radio, CD, tape, etc. players are permitted in the pool area.

23. No alcohol of any type (can, bottles or plastic) is allowed in the pool or pool area. 24. Parking at the pool areas is restricted for residents and their guests for pool usage only. All other will be towed at the owner's expense.

25. Replacement pool keys can be obtained by filling out the Pool Key Replacement

form located on line at www.casnc.com under Hollands Crossing

The pool facilities enhance Hollands Crossing and residents should take responsibility for enforcing these rules. Should you see an infraction, please point them out to the offender. If this does not help, please report the incident to CAS Community Management at (919) 367-7711 or Apex Police (919)362-8661.

Fines for violation of the Rules are up to $100.00 per occurrence